---
layout: post
title: transaction definitions
description: transaction vocabulary and definitions
categories: programming
---
**A**tomicity  
**C**onsistency  
**I**solation  
**D**urability  

### Dirty reads
> One client reads another client’s writes before they have been committed. The read committed isolation level and stronger levels prevent dirty reads.

### Dirty writes
> One client overwrites data that another client has written, but not yet committed. Almost all transaction implementations prevent dirty writes.

### Read skew (nonrepeatable reads)
> A client sees different parts of the database at different points in time.

### Write skew
> A transaction reads something, makes a decision based on the value it saw, and writes the decision to the database. However, by the time the write is made, the premise of the decision is no longer true. 

### Phantom reads
> A transaction reads objects that match some search condition. Another client makes a write that affects the results of that search. 

### Upgrades procedure
During rolling upgrades, or for various other reasons, we must assume that different nodes are running the different versions of our application’s code. Thus, it is important that all data flowing around the system is encoded in a way that provides **backward compatibility** (_new code can read old data_) and **forward compatibility** (_old code can read new data_).

### Application pillars 

1. Reliability
> The system should continue to work correctly (performing the correct function at the desired level of performance) even in the face of adversity (hardware or software faults, and even human error). 
 
2. Scalability  
> As the system grows (in data volume, traffic volume, or complexity), there should be reasonable ways of dealing with that growth.

3. Maintenability 
> Over time, many different people will work on the system (engineering and operations, both maintaining current behavior and adapting the system to new use cases), and they should all be able to work on it productively
>> operability  
>> simplicity  
>> evolvability   

 
from [DDA](https://www.amazon.com/Designing-Data-Intensive-Applications-Reliable-Maintainable/dp/1449373321)

